Hello guys, how are you all? If you too have had a
similar accident with your two-wheeler
and you have insurance, but you do
n't know how to claim, then
in this video we will see this and
I will also tell you many tricks by
which you can save a lot of your money.
You can get up to 100% claim, it
depends on your policy. So
we will discuss everything, so I do
n't want to miss anything. Guy, please watch this video till the end.
I am your friend Sachin. Let us
start this video,
so let me give you an overview first. This
accident happened to me on January 29th. A
truck hit me from behind, so I did
n't realize it. But later, when I
stopped to fill petrol, I saw
what I did, I made a video and took photos. So,
you also have to keep this in mind that whenever you have an
accident, you should first
make a video of whatever part is damaged
and you can also make a full video of what all has been
damaged so that
you don't have any issue while making a claim.  So first of all, I have
taken a photo and
made a video as a proof that
we should have proof that this has happened and
secondly, you should try to
complete the claim process on the same day so that there is no issue later
and if you are not able to complete it at that time then
try to complete the process in a day or two
so that you do not face any issue related to the date. So let
us directly talk about
how you can claim, for example,
my insurance is from ICICI
Lombard, it may be from some other insurance company
but I will tell you this for ICC,
more or less all the steps are the same, so the
process is the same for everyone but I will
show you through ICC, so to do this
you simply go to
ICICI Lombard and you have to come down, this is
their side, you have to click on it,
okay then this page will open, in it
you have to go to the claim section, here you
can see claim, if you click on it then it will
ask you for whom you want to claim, for example, if
our scooter is damaged then
we click on motor claim.  We will do it, okay, here
you have to click on raise a
claim, okay, here simply you have to
enter your policy number and here you have to
enter your chassis number and you have to tell
what type of accident you had, accident
or your vehicle was stolen, then
you have to enter according to that, here
I enter my policy number, then you have to
enter your registration number here
or you have to enter your chassis number and
here you have to click on accident and
you have to click
on submit, now here you will get the details, so
here you have to fill in your details, so date
of loss, here you have to enter the date of accident, which
I have written, which happened to me, on
29th January 2025,
when did it happen, it happened around 1:30 pm, so you have to
enter the address around which it happened,
like my accident happened in Kashmiri Gate and
you have to enter the state here, so
like my state is Delhi,
loss city and city is also Delhi, okay
and here you have to write about it,
so whatever happened to you, you have to
enter it here,  My scooter was hit by a truck,
so you simply have to enter '
My vehicle is hit by truck' and from here
you have to tell that your vehicle was parked or it was
moving, so what happens is that many times if
your vehicle is parked and then some
damage occurs then you have to enter the park in it,
if you are going somewhere and your vehicle is
in moving then you have to click
on moving, now you have to click on proceed,
okay as soon as you click on proceed,
you will come to the next step, here
your own personal details will be mentioned here,
your registration number will be mentioned,
your vehicle name, everything will be mentioned, if it is
not there then you can enter it yourself, if it is already there
means that data has already been fetched and
here it will ask whether the insurance is in your name
and you were driving the vehicle, then you
click on self there and your name will automatically appear
and if suppose the vehicle is in your name
and someone else, your friend or your
agent or someone else was driving then
you enter his name here, select here and
enter his name, okay  Here
you have to do is the accident reported to
police, so you will have to tell whether you
reported the accident to the police or not,
no or yes and is the third party injury, so has
any third party also been injured, so
if someone else has been injured by your car, then
you have to say yes or no, if nothing like this has happened with my
car, then I will say no,
if someone has been injured by your car, then
you have to say yes and if you have filed a
police complaint, then say yes or no
and here you have to write vehicle
reported to garage, so suppose it is your
car, then you cannot come back by driving it, so
you will have to
give it to a nearby garage somewhere, so if you have
left the car in the garage, then you have to
press yes and if your car is
in working condition, can be driven and you have come to your home, then
you have to press no, okay and
here you have to submit it by clicking on I agree, so as
soon as
you submit it, your application will be
submitted, okay, do this  After this
you have to come to this page again and
here you have to submit and e-claim,
so the claim you make is done in two processes,
first you have to raise the claim,
after the claim is raised you have to click on submit on e-
claim, so as
I click here again I will have to
fill all the details again, so here
I will have to enter claim number and here
I have to enter Naga chassis number, accident and as soon as I click on sat here, it will
ask me for some more details like we had
filled it in the front, you simply have to fill the same details again,
you have to click on submit and
as soon as you submit, this
PDF will be downloaded to you, so you simply have to
save this e-claim PDF,
you will need it later, okay, so you have to do these two
steps, as soon as you do these steps
you will get a message, okay your claim
number will come and you will be signed by a person
who will look after your issue, okay,
you can do the same thing in their ICICI app
also, so you have to do their  You have to
download the app and as soon as you login
in the app, your policies will appear there,
so you can raise the claim from there also,
after doing all this you will get a
call, the person assigned to you will
call you and will verify some
details from you about your vehicle
and will tell you the nearest service center where you
can drop your vehicle, so in my case, before making the claim, I went to
my nearest service center,
they directly refused saying
that this claim is not done here,
I told them the same thing in the call, then
they told me another nearest service
center of TVS, so this is the most
important point, so they will also
tell you a list of some documents which you have to carry
when you
go to make a claim, so you simply need a
copy of your insurance which you had done, a
copy of this e-claim, then you will need your PAN card,
RC of your vehicle, your Aadhar card and
your DL, so you need all these documents,
You have to get photocopies of everything done and keep
one set and these will be of all those whose
details you had filled, whoever was involved in the accident,
you will need their documents, so let me
tell you a story, when I went there,
a scooter had come there which had
some damage, that guy did
not have a driving license, he had a learning license, so
in this case they directly refused saying that it will
not be possible, if you want a claim then you
need a proper driving license and not a learning one, so keep this thing in mind that
they will not accept your documents, you should
not have a learning one, you should have a
proper DL, so this is a very
important thing, so you have to keep all these documents with you,
then you have to
tell them a date when you will go and
you have to visit on that day, okay, in this
you have two types of claims, one is
your normal one is zero dep, so if
you had selected zero dep while taking the insurance
and there is zero dep in your policy, then it
means that whatever payment will be made on 100, it will be by the
insurance people only.  You will do it, you will
not have to pay anything, you have to pay a file charge, the
rest of the expenses will be borne by the
insurance company, but if you do
not have zero dep, you will have to pay Rs. 50 for
all parts and you will have to pay Rs. 20 for
labor cost and other costs, so
it varies from policy to policy, so when
you get a call, you can ask them in the call
that for which parts will I have to pay
and how will this process happen, you
can confirm with them, the date which was given to me, on
that day I went to the service center, I
gave them all the documents, there is a
trick here, so when I went,
they told me that you will have to pay Rs.
50 plus GST, so it is around Rs. 50, so
you will have to pay that,
they had said it, so I said okay I will pay,
but when I
spoke to the insurance person later, they said that the
minimum amount is Rs. 1, so you
can convince them at that time that no brother I will pay Rs. 1, so
if they agree, then you can give them Rs. 1 also  You
may have to pay file charges
but instead of 50, you can get your work done by paying ₹1 as well,
so if the service center is telling you to
pay 50, then you can take it at that time,
but you should try first to
reduce the cost, okay, and one more thing, when you
submit all the documents to them, then
make a scan copy of it, so whatever
documents they take from you, I told you,
make a scan copy of five documents,
so in future you have proof that
you had given all the documents, and the most
important thing is that when all this process is done,
your name will not appear in place of the biller, that means who will pay for
it, so the insurance from whom
you have taken the insurance, his
name will appear in the biller, so you should pay attention that the
biller's name is not there in the document, and
you should also tell them to change the biller name,
who will pay for it, so after
changing it, you have to
write the name of your insurance company, like
in my case it is ICICI, okay, and
after that you have submitted your scooter here,
so what proof do you have?  So you will be
given a slip, you have to keep that slip safely,
so whenever you go to collect your scooter, you have to
show it, only then you will get your
scooter. Okay, after all this is done, you will return with
your scooter, so how
can you check the status of your
claim, you can see here the option is
coming, Check Claim Status and Update
Document, so you have to click on it,
as you click on it, you have to
enter your mobile number here and you have to
click on Get OTP in it, so as
you can see in this screenshot, I
entered my number and my process came here
and here you can see that
my claim status has come here, so you
can see the final verification is in progress
here and here my policy
number here, when is my policy valid, which
garage has it gone to, when was it started and
what is its status, so if you have come after keeping your scooter, then
you will get to see a different status, in
progress or that, and as soon as
your claim is done, your claim will be complete here.  You will get
to see it, so you can also track yourself like this
that what is your current status at this time
and if you
see the latest screenshot you can see that my
claim has been closed because I have
already brought my scooter, my
claim has been closed, so my issue has been
resolved, so here the claim has closed
and here you can see
paid and close in the status, so all the work has been done, so
you can see different statuses here,
so if yours is zero dep, then it
means you do not have to pay anything, you just have to pay the
file charge and in that case you
can get your damaged part repaired and even the one which has a little bit,
you can get it changed, but if suppose
yours is on 50, then you should
tell me in advance that before changing any part, inform me and call, do
not start the work before that, like
in my case, we were changing five-six parts, saying
this is bad, this is bad, but mine was on 50,
so I got only the necessary parts
changed, so if  If I had not
told them, they would have changed all the parts and
I would have had to pay Rs. 50. So whenever this happens,
you should tell them in advance that before changing the part,
inform me and do not add any such part.
Okay, and in the meantime, I got
another mail again, let me show it to you.
I got a mail from ICICI that
your scooter has not yet come to the garage and
I had already submitted it and they are
requesting you, so you should
keep your scooter there within six days.
Whenever you come after leaving the scooter,
you should also inform your ICICI agent that you have
left the scooter there so that he can go there and
inspect it and your process can proceed further.
Okay, so many times this also gets delayed.
Okay, then in the middle, I got a
call once again from ICICI and
from the TVS showroom that
you should send your previous insurance as well. I had to
send their PDF. So, they check whether
you have taken a claim in your previous policy or not,
for that and for some of your
information.  They ask if you
can simply give it to them, so I have
whatsapp2 model and now the white colour engine has
stopped coming, so it took some
time to get the parts, so
I did this on 29th, my scooter
was repaired on 12th February and I got a call
from TVS service centre on 12th February that
your scooter has been repaired and we have
sent the documents to ICICI,
as soon as they approve you
can take the scooter, so immediately I
called my ICICI agent and told him that it is done,
they took time till 12th and on
13th they told me that we have
processed your claim, so you can see
as soon as my claim was processed at night,
I got a message that we have now
completed it, so
whatever was our share on our end, we have processed it
and you can now come and take your scooter,
and I also got a mail that the repair is
complete and the amount was also
given here, so what  I will have to pay the amount
and the same thing will be transferred to me
through WhatsApp2. This
happened on February 12 and they
transferred the amount to ICICI on the same day. So
as you can see in the screenshot,
my total repair cost was Rs.
4156 and I had to
pay Rs. 20066 and the remaining
amount of Rs. I had to pay. So
you will get a message like this. So you
can see that I had to pay % in my case
because I did not have zero deposit. But
whenever you take a policy, remember to take zero deposit so that
you do
not have to pay money while making an insurance claim. Let me tell you about a case
when I went there,
a guy had bought a new scooter and where he
sits, his scooter was completely damaged by
dogs. So he came to make a claim.
So if it is a small claim like this, then
you should not make a claim. So if he buys it
locally from outside for Rs. 500-6600.  It may be correct or
your company may pay you by doing it, you should
not take the claim because you will have to pay filing charges of Rs. 50-400, so there is
no benefit, on
top of that whenever you claim your insurance,
you have to pay a little more money next time whenever you do the insurance again
because you had
claimed your insurance last year, then
that is also useless, so you should try to
claim your insurance only if your damage is more, but if the
expense is Rs. 500-600, then you should not do it, it is your
loss only, like in my case, the
expense was Rs. 4000, so it was a sensible decision
that I claimed my insurance,
now all this was done, I
went to collect my scooter the next day, I
checked at my end whether the
money had come through ICICI or not, I checked and the money had come, the
remaining amount was Rs.
290, they told me to pay it,
I paid that amount, then they
showed me my scooter, so in this case, keep in
mind whenever you go to collect your scooter  If
you find it, inspect it to see if the work you had done is there
and the
parts mentioned in the bill are not fitted to your scooter
and whether those parts are new or old, then
you should check this and if there is any new damage, then
many times what happens is that
my scooter was there for 121 days, so there could be some
other damage as well, so if you check that also,
simply at that time also you
can take a photo video of what
parts are fitted and if there is any extra damage,
you can also make a video when you go to give your scooter,
in which state you gave your scooter and
what is its condition now, if you want you
can also take the meter reading, okay, so in this way by
following this process you
can easily make your claim, so I hope you liked this video
and if this video
helps you even a little then
put a like in the comment section so that I
know that I was able to help you, so
thank you so much guy for watching this video
I will  Definitely see you in my next
video till then take care guys
respect parents and elders Jai Hind
[Music]